In this section of the course, we are going to use Julia to build neural networks from scratch using
the machine learning laboratory in Julia, which is called Flux.
Now, this is not a course on machine learning.
So I'm assuming that you're already a little bit familiar with neural networks and you've worked with
other laboratories which work with neural networks if you haven't worked with neural networks before.
There are tons of tutorials on the Internet.
You can look them up and get familiar with them before you start with Julia, because Julia is kind
of like advanced machine learning.
It starts from zero, but it comes up to state of the art.
Really quickly, I'm going to give you a crash course on the basic concepts of machine learning, but
only the concepts that are relevant to our discussion over here.
So to get started, all neural networks are two buses.
One is the forward pass in which you take some attributes of the data that you have.
You multiply them with some weights and you apply some squishing function and you get an output back.
OK, so for instance, you might have W into X plus B is equal to this Z value overhead and you can
apply a sigmoid or an activation function to it.
That is your forward, but it's fairly straightforward.
Then you do a backward pass in which you calculate the derivative of this loss that you've calculated
or the error that you have with respect to all the parameters that you have for the model.
So the W that you had over here, that needs to change so that when it is multiplied to X, the loss
is minimized.
And you do that using the derivative of the loss with respect to W and then you updated using the gradient
descent update function, which is essentially the old value of W or Thida.
You take that old value, you subtract the derivative with respect to that multiplied by some learning
parameter, which is called Alpha.
OK, so these are the three things that you have to do.
So let's put them together.
So you have the forward pass, which is essentially just a mathematical function.
It's not complicated.
You have the backward pass and then you have the parameter addition step.
So this is fairly straightforward.
This is fairly straightforward.
The backward pass is complicated because in this you have to have a very complicated mathematical function
and you have to calculate the derivatives for that.
And this is where people struggle with machine learning.
You have to calculate derivatives with respect to millions of different parameters.
And these are partial derivatives, extremely complicated.
So easy, easy and difficult.
The way Julia works is it allows you to specify the forward pass and the abduction step, but it takes
care of the backward pass, which is the difficult part automatically for you.
And that makes our life very easy as machine learning developers.
So keeping this in mind, let's go ahead and see how Julia does this.
So we'll start off with a very basic mathematical function, calculate the derivatives and then move
onto the ablation step as well.
So the library is flux.
If you haven't installed it, you can install it using add flux and then start with using flux.
So this is our dommy function.
So 3x squared plus two X plus one, just a basic function which will give you a derivative or gradient
of six X plus two.
But we're not going to calculate this.
We're going to get Juliar to calculate it for us.
So this is our function and all you have to do is call the built in function in flux, which is called
gradient, and tell it to calculate the gradient of F with respect to its one parameter, but for the
value of X2.
So this is the derivative of F with respect to X when X is equal to do that is what this is the gradient
of F with respect to X when you want to do so.
Six plus two, that is going to be evaluated.
So six into two is twelve plus two is four.
So we get the right answer over here.
So that's all the gradient part, which was the difficult thing we did not have to do by hand.
So I brought this here.
But we don't need this.
This is just a comment.
OK, we can go ahead and make this a little cleaner because this is in a tuple and we need a value so
we can define a new function.
D.F. of X.
So this DF is just for our ease of understanding.
It can be any name.
So the F effects is equal to this gradient function.
We're going to multiply this.
So this is the value of the function.
Right.
If you don't remember, recall that this is a function which is defined in a single line.
So this is the function name and the parameter, and this is a function body.
What the function body does is it caused the gradient of F with respect to X. So this value and returns
the first elements of 14 back so you can have this and then you called at two, you get the value for
back.
OK, so now what D.F. is is the derivative of F with respect to X at this particular value.
OK, so this is very easy to work with.
Make sure that you understand this.
If you don't go back around this again, calculate this for different values of X so that you are crystal
clear on this.
So we're going to build on top of this now.
Let's go ahead and.
Take a look at functions which have multiple parameters, so, for instance, we have a function F which
takes two vectors as it's input X and Y.
OK, so what the function itself does is it calculates the difference of corresponding elements in X
and Y and then squares them.
OK, so your typical means coordinator.
OK, this is a simple function definition.
Nothing complicated going on over here.
The only thing is X and Y are both going to be vectors.
OK, no problem.
Now we are going to take this W as X and B as Y.
There are two vectors, this and this.
We are going to calculate the derivative of F with respect to these two vectors.
OK.
And because these are vectors, the derivative is going to be piecewise or partial derivative with respect
to this guy separately.
And this guy.
So there are going to be four partial derivatives over here.
And if you don't recall calculus.
Don't worry about it.
Just remember that we are calculating this derivative stuff.
OK.
So if you have one W here and another W here, we are going to calculate the derivative of this loss
with respect to this W separately and this W separately.
So if this was a vector W1 W2, we are going to calculate derivative with respect to W one separately
and W do separately and then for instance here Q1, Q2 separately.
So everything is going to be calculated separately.
Right, because we need to use those to apply this parameter instead.
OK, so let's go ahead and do this.
So the function is this guy over here.
So this is the forward pass and backward passes the calculation of gradient with respect to each different
value.
So we are going to do that and we get four different values.
So what this is saying is the gradient or derivative of F with respect to these two values and because
these are vectors, we are going to calculate the derivative of F with respect to w w w one is equal
to do so.
That is the zero one.
W two is equal to one and that is this B1 and B2.
So all of these are calculated automatically for us.
Now, this is slightly difficult to work with, so Flux provides an alternative syntax, so here you
have to calculate what one is.
What do is what we want is what we do is we have an easier method for doing this.
What we can say is we can define a new function.
This is going to be the body of the function.
What this is going to do is it's going to calculate the gradient with respect to these parameters,
WNBA for this function.
So the syntax looks slightly convoluted.
It's the exact same thing, the gradient with respect to the parameters WFB of this function is going
to be calculated and it's going to be saved in G.S..
So when you do that, you get some great games back.
If you say Gowda grades, it gives you a huge mess.
So it's kind of complicated, but the point of using this syntax is now you can say GSW and you get
012.
So the same value and back out you can simply use.
This to get the one and this to get W2.
OK, so it works out similarly, you can go ahead and get these derivatives with respect to B, which
are these guys over here?
So same idea.
You have a function over here.
You need the derivatives, partial derivatives of this with respect to all the parameters you use this
index.
OK, when we go ahead with we are going to get rid of even this stuff over here.
And the final syntax is going to be very easy.
But we are building this from scratch so that if you have to create your own models later on, you know
how to do that.
OK, the final syntax of flux is very clean, very easy to work with.
This is just the building blocks and that's why it looks slightly messy in the beginning.
OK, now let's go out and create a basic model for for.
So we are going to create this stuff.
We are going to have some X is going in and some bits are going to be able to play with that.
So we have some WS.
So these are the random bits.
So these so this is a matrix two by five and the Bias's are a vector.
OK, so what is the prediction?
You would have seen this before we multiply with X and then add B to it.
OK, so the prediction of X's W, X plus B, this is a basic forward pass for a single neuron.
But what is the loss?
The loss function is y is you do the prediction and then you calculate the squared error and you sum
over all the different data points that you have.
That is your loss, just a basic loss.
By the way, we write this.
If I had as you write Y and then you say a slash had hit tab and it's going to convert into Lahat,
OK, this looks very similar to the mathematical notation which appears in the paper.
So Julia prefers this.
So you should get used to doing this.
Anyway, we have the last function and we have debates.
Now what we want to do is we want to calculate the loss for particular values for X and Y is going to
be around five and two.
So this is some dummy data are X values are going to be.
These and our values are going to be the story here.
OK, so X and Y, we can calculate the loss of X and Y.
So what loss does is we go over there.
We predict a vie for these X values.
So for these guys over here, we predict away and calculate what the difference is because W was initialized
as a random, we are going to get some random loss of that.
He had three point six.
It's not good.
Obviously we are going to improve this by applying the backward pass for that.
We need the gradient.
So we use this index gradient parameters.
For this lost function, so the gradient are derivative of this lost function with respect to W and
B is going to be needed.
OK, we do that.
And because this is very common, we have an alternative syntax as well.
So you can use this exact same thing.
It does the exact same thing is that you have a function which is anonymous function for loss and this
guy over here.
So this is an alternative syntax.
It comes up in Julia's documentation.
So it's included over here.
But if you if you understand this, this is exactly the same thing.
OK, now you can say dot grads and you get this big old mess.
But the point is we can say the derivatives for W are JSW.
OK, so this is true.
But now we have the JSW.
This is this guy over here.
OK, so the derivative of the lost function with respect to this particular vate that is in W hat over
here or the bluebottle.
OK, we are going to apply this.
So this is your alpha.
W.
Not minus is equal to this guy over here, so all value minus alpha into the derivative.
We do that so all the weights are updated.
If you calculate the loss now, you will see that the loss has gone down because we have applied the
backward pass once.
We can also calculate the derivatives with respect to be so that is this and we update the biases as
well.
And now the loss is going to go further down.
We can go ahead and do another pass by calculating the derivatives with respect to WFB again.
So we're going to do this.
And if you do this now, it's going to update and you update this and you calculate the loss, it goes
further down.
You calculate the derivatives with respect to B, update your B and you calculate the loss.
It goes further down.
So our boss is going to be calculate the gradient with the new WFB values and update those.
And that's your basic neural network attrition.
Calculate the derivative with respect to current values of rates and update the rates.
That is the thing.
Let's go ahead and revise this whole thing again.
It's very dense.
So you might have to look at this again and again.
But this forms the building block of the Flux Library.
And as you can see, if you get rid of everything, it's just three or four lines of code.
So it's going to take a look at this.
So these are random words and biases, we initialize them randomly afterwards, forward pass is simply
the multiplication of W and then addition of loss is just the mean squared error, which we normally
have.
X and Y are going to be some dummy data, so some dumphy values for X and Dumitru, values for Y.
OK, these are the values.
First we look at what the law says.
Then we calculate the derivative with respect to the laws and then we update the weights first and then
devices.
That's all there is to it.
So going back to the figure, we do the forward pass, we calculate the derivative and we update the
weights based on the derivative that we've calculated.
We do this again and again and it becomes very clear.
So the next word and put this in one cell so that you understand what's happened.
So we have the weights.
So you go.
I'm going to do this in real time so that you can see so these are our rates and biases, I predict
function is.
This.
Then.
We have our lost function.
This would be our last function.
Then we need the ingredients.
You can use either of these two.
OK, so let's go ahead and put these in a separate cell.
We take our data as well, so our data is going to be this.
Let's put this over here, so I'm putting everything that has to be repeated here and everything that
is done once over here, OK?
Finally, we have the.
It's over here and we are going to update the weights using this similarly for Bias's, we have the
calculation of biases and oblation as well.
OK, and then we output the loss with respect to X and Y.
OK, so hopefully this makes sense.
Let's go ahead and output the loss initially as well.
So there you go.
This is our initial loss.
Now let's go ahead and do the aggression.
Loss goes down.
You do it again and loss goes further down and you keep doing that and loss is going to keep going down.
OK.
I hope you understand this forward pass, backward pass and the abduction, so that's all there is to
it.
This is all you need to write a simple neural network.
And Julia, if you've done this stuff with any other library, you would notice that this is extremely
easy.
Much easier to work with than any other library.
So in the next video, we are going to take these basic concepts and build a multi-level neural network
instead of a single neuron.